= Processr

* Overview
* Installation
* Usage
* Bugs



== Overview

Processr is a simple text processing and concatenation library. It takes a number of input strings (or files) and outputs a single string (or file) containing the result. Text can be passed through filters to modify the output.



== Installation

The project is hosted on rubygems.org. Getting it is simple:

  gem install processr



== Usage


=== Configuration

Use the configuration block to setup Processr

  Processr.configure do |config|
    config.root = File.expand_path(File.dirname(__FILE__))
    config.out  = File.join(config.root, 'output.txt')
  end

If an output file is specified the result will be written to that file, otherwise the result will be returned directly from the #process! method.


=== Basic

  processor = Processr.new
  processor << "Some\n"
  processor << "Text"
  processor.process! # => "Some\nText"

This will result in a concatenated string being returned.


=== Basic (from file)

  processor = Processr.new
  processor.files << 'input_one.txt'
  processor.files << 'input_two.txt'
  processor.process! # => contents of input_one.txt and input_two.txt

This will result in the contents of input_one.txt and input_two.txt returned.


=== Filters

Filters can be used to modify the output of a processing session. A filter is any object that responds to #call. Filters take a single argument (the input buffer) and must return the modified buffer for further processing. For example:

  lambda do |buffer|
    # ...do something with buffer here...
    
    buffer
  end

Or

  class MyFilter
    
    def self.call(buffer)
      # ...do something with buffer here...
      
      buffer
    end
    
  end

You can register a filter by calling #add_filter on an instance of Processr. A further example would be a really simple textile parser:
  
  TextileFilter = lambda do |buffer|
    
    lookup = {
      /_(.*)_/         => '<em>\1</em>',
      /\*(.*)\*/       => '<strong>\1</strong>',
      /\"(.*)\":(\S*)/ => '<a href="\2">\1</a>'
    }
    
    lookup.each_pair do |regex, replacement|
      buffer.gsub!(regex, replacement)
    end
    
    buffer
  end
  
  processor = Processr.new
  processor.add_filter(TextileFilter)
  processor << 'A _simple_ example of a "textile":http://www.textism.com/tools/textile/ parser using a *filter*.'
  processor.process! # => "A <em>simple</em> example of a <a href="http://www.textism.com/tools/textile/">textile</a> parser using a <strong>filter</strong>."

Run the examples for more information.



== Bugs

If you have any problems with processr, please file an issue at http://github.com/joshnesbitt/processr/issues.



== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.



== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Josh Nesbitt <josh@josh-nesbitt.net>. See LICENSE for details.
